
> alt+x cider-jack-in

    In Emacs, editing takes place in buffers.
    To switch to a buffer, use C-x b and enter the buffer name in the minibuffer.
    To create a new buffer, use C-x b and enter a new buffer name.
    To open a file, use C-x C-f and navigate to the file.
    To save a buffer to a file, use C-x C-s.
    To create a new file, use C-x C-f and enter the new file’s path. When you save the buffer, Emacs will create the file on the filesystem.


(commands)
C-a 	Move to beginning of line.
M-m 	Move to first non-whitespace character on the line.
C-e 	Move to end of line.
C-f 	Move forward one character.
C-b 	Move backward one character.
M-f 	Move forward one word (I use this a lot).
M-b 	Move backward one word (I use this a lot, too).
C-s 	Regex search for text in current buffer and move to it. Press C-s again to move to next match.
C-r 	Same as C-s, but search in reverse.
M-< 	Move to beginning of buffer.
M-> 	Move to end of buffer.
M-g g 	Go to line. 


(cut/paste)
C-w 	Kill region.
M-w 	Copy region to kill ring.
C-y 	Yank.
M-y 	Cycle through kill ring after yanking.
M-d 	Kill word.
C-k 	Kill line. 


(useful editing)
Tab 	Indent line.
C-j 	New line and indent, equivalent to enter followed by tab.
M-/ 	Hippie expand; cycles through possible expansions of the text before point.
M-\ 	Delete all spaces and tabs around point. (I use this one a lot.) 


(help)
C-h k key-binding 	Describe the function bound to the key binding. To get this to work, you actually perform the key sequence after typing C-h k.
C-h f 	Describe function. 


(multiple windows)
C-x o 	Switch cursor to another window. Try this now to switch between your Clojure file and the REPL.
C-x 1 	Delete all other windows, leaving only the current window in the frame. This doesn’t close your buffers, and it won’t cause you to lose any work.
C-x 2 	Split frame above and below.
C-x 3 	Split frame side by side.
C-x 0 	Delete current window. 


(key bindings)
C-c M-n 	Switch to namespace of current buffer.
C-x C-e 	Evaluate expression immediately preceding point.
C-c C-k 	Compile current buffer.
C-c C-d C-d 	Display documentation for symbol under point.
M-. and M-, 	Navigate to source code for symbol under point and return to your original buffer.
C-c C-d C-a 	Apropros search; find arbitrary text across function names and documentation. 


(misc)
C-↑, C-↓ 	Cycle through REPL history.
C-enter 	Close parentheses and evaluate. 


(parenthesis)
M-x paredit-mode 	Toggle paredit mode.
M-( 	Surround expression after point in parentheses (paredit-wrap-round).
C-→ 	Slurp; move closing parenthesis to the right to include next expression.
C-← 	Barf; move closing parenthesis to the left to exclude last expression.
C-M-f, C-M-b 	Move to the opening/closing parenthesis. 




